.TH vpmuser 8 "2005-02-19" vPostMaster "vPostMaster mail user maintenance"

.SH NAME
vpmuser \- vPostMaster mail user maintenance command-line interface.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B vpmuser
[\fIACTION\fR] [\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
.B vpmuser
is a program which can be used to add or delete users from the
command-line, a script, or an automated billing system.  Data can be passed
either on the command-line or via environment variables.

.SH ACTIONS

.TP
\fB\-\-create\fR
Create a new user.

.TP
\fB\-\-delete\fR
Delete an existing user.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a brief usage message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Display the program CVS version and exit.  Note that this almost certainly
will be different from the version of vPostMaster installed.

.TP
\fB\-\-user\fR[=\fIUSER\fR]
The name of the user (create or delete).

.TP
\fB\-\-domain\fR[=\fIDOMAIN\fR]
The name of the domain the the user is in (create or delete).

.TP
\fB\-\-password\fR[=\fIPASSWORD\fR]
An unencrypted password to be associated with the user.  Note that other
users on the system where this command is run can probably see the full
list of arguments, so this may reveal the account information to others.
Using the environment or crypted password options is preferred.
This will be encrypted before being used, and is simply a convenience
for the user.  Unencrypted passwords are not stored by the system.
(create)

.TP
\fB\-\-crypted-password\fR[=\fIPASSWORD_IN_CRYPTED_FORMAT\fR]
The user password in standard Unix "crypt" format.  (create)

.TP
\fB\-\-quota\fR[=\fIQUOTA_IN_MEGABYTES\fR]
The size of the user's quota in megabytes.  (create)

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-environment\fR
Read values for quota, password, user and domain names from the environment
instead of from the command-line.  Values in the environment will
supersede values on the command-line, if both are specified.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The action and user information options may be specified by passing them in
the environment instead of via command-line options.  On some systems, the
environment may be more difficult for arbitrary other users on the system
to read, and may also be easier for some scripts to pass data via.  The
environment also is not subject to shell expansion and may limit exposure
to certain attacks.
.PP
The following values may be passed in the environment:

.TP
\fBVPMACTION\fR
The action, either "create" or "delete".

.TP
\fBVPMDOMAIN\fR
Domain name of the account to act on.  (create and delete)

.TP
\fBVPMUSER\fR
User name to act on.  (create and delete)

.TP
\fBVPMPASSWORD\fR
Unencrypted password.  This will be encrypted before being used, and is
simply a convenience for the user.  Unencrypted passwords are not stored by
the system.  (create)

.TP
\fBVPMCRYPTEDPASSWORD\fR
Unix format encrypted password.  (create)

.TP
\fBVPMQUOTA\fR
Quota in megabytes.  (create)

.SH EXAMPLES

.PP
To create a new mail user named "alice@example.com":

.TP
.nf
   vpmuser --create --user=alice --domain=example.com --password=mypass
.fi

.PP
To delete the above user:

.nf
   vpmuser --delete --user=alice --domain=example.com
.fi

.PP
To create a user using the environment:

.nf
   export VPMUSER=alice
   export VPMDOMAIN=example.com
   export VPMPASSWORD=mypass
   export VPMQUOTA=10
   vpmuser --environment
.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT
This software works with the vPostMaster mail system
(http://www.tummy.com/Products/vpostmaster/).

.SH AUTHOR
Sean Reifschneider (jafo@tummy.com) of tummy.com, ltd.
